Install Qiskit from source (#303)
Qiskit/documentation: docs/start/install-qiskit-source.mdx

```

4. Install `qiskit`. 

  * **Standard install**: 

    ```python
      pip install .
    ```

  * **Editable mode**: In this mode, you don't need to reinstall Qiskit when there are code changes to the project.

    ```python
      pip install -e .
    ```

    In editable mode, the compiled extensions are built in _debug mode_ without optimizations. This affects the runtime performance of the compiled code. To build the compiled extensions with optimizations enabled, run the following command to rebuild the binary in _release mode_:

    ```python
      python setup.py build_rust --release --inplace
    ```

    <Admonition type="note">
    If you are working on Rust code in Qiskit, you need to rebuild the extension code every time you make a local change. In editable mode, the Rust extension is only built when the install command is run, so local changes you make to the Rust code are not reflected in the installed package unless you rebuild the extension by rerunning `build_rust` (with or without `--release`, depending on whether you want to build in release or debug mode).
    </Admonition>

## Next steps

<Admonition type="tip" title="Recommendations">

>   -  [Select and set up an IBM Quantum channel.](setup-channel)
>   -  [Configure Qiskit locally.](configure-qiskit-local)
>   -  Follow the steps in [Hello world](hello-world) to write and run a quantum program.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>   - Contribute to the open-source Qiskit SDK (start by reading the [contributing guidelines.](https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Read the [contributing guidelines](https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) to contribute to the open-source Qiskit SDK.
```

---
title: Install Qiskit from source
description: Install Qiskit from source

---
# Install Qiskit from source

Installing Qiskit from source allows you to access the current development version, instead of using the version in the Python Package Index (PyPI) repository. This lets you inspect and extend the latest version of the Qiskit code more efficiently. 

## Create and activate a new virtual environment

First, create a new virtual environment for Qiskit. 

```python
  python3 -m venv QiskitDevenv
  source QiskitDevenv/bin/activate
```

## Install the Rust compiler

> The Rust compiler must be installed in your new virtual environment. To install the Rust compiler, use the cross-platform Rust installer [rustup](https://rustup.rs/) or [another install method.](https://forge.rust-lang.org/infra/other-installation-methods.html) 

Reviewer 2: Having a working Rust compiler is independent of Python virtual environments - probably we just mean

> A Rust compiler must be installed on your system to compile Qiskit.

as the first sentence.

> The Rust compiler must be installed in your new virtual environment. To install the Rust compiler, use the cross-platform Rust installer [rustup](https://rustup.rs/) or [another install method.](https://forge.rust-lang.org/infra/other-installation-methods.html) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Rust compiler must be installed on your system to compile Qiskit. To install the Rust compiler, use the cross-platform Rust installer [rustup](https://rustup.rs/) or [another install method.](https://forge.rust-lang.org/infra/other-installation-methods.html) 
```

## Install Qiskit

Follow these steps to install Qiskit:

1. Clone the Qiskit repository.

> ```python
>   git clone https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit-terra.git
> ```
> 
> 2. Change to the `qiskit-terra` directory. 
> 
> ```python
>   cd qiskit-terra
> ```

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```python
  git clone https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit.git
```

2. Change to the `qiskit` directory. 

```python
  cd qiskit
```
````

the repository is called `Qiskit/qiskit` now

3. (Optional) If you want to run tests or linting checks, install the developer requirements.

```python
  pip install -r requirements-dev.txt
```

> 4. Install `qiskit-terra`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Install `qiskit`. 
```

      pip install .
    ```

  * **Editable mode**: In this mode, you don't need to reinstall Qiskit when there are code changes to the project.

    ```python
      pip install -e .
    ```

    In editable mode, the compiled extensions are built in _debug mode_ without optimizations. This affects the runtime performance of the compiled code. To build the compiled extensions with optimizations enabled, run the following command to rebuild the binary in _release mode_:

    ```python
      python setup.py build_rust --release --inplace
    ```

    <Admonition type="note">
    If you are working on Rust code in Qiskit, you need to rebuild the extension code every time you make a local change. In editable mode, the Rust extension is only built when the install command is run, so local changes you make to the Rust code are not reflected in the installed package unless you rebuild the extension by rerunning `build_rust` (with or without `--release`, depending on whether you want to build in release or debug mode).
    </Admonition>

## Run example code

You can run Qiskit code examples by running the following command:

```python
  python examples/python/using_qiskit_terra_level_0.py

> ```

Reviewer 2: I think we might be supposed to be getting rid of this file, but I'm not super sure.  I forgot it even existed.

Reviewer 3: I think we should jus remove the "run exmple code" section, we don't have info like this in the other install pages

## Next steps

> <Admonition type="tip" title="Recommendations">

Reviewer 3: I think people who come to this page might be more interested in trying out the development version of qiskit or possibly contributing. Maybe these are more appropriate next steps:

- Want to contribute to the open-source Qiskit SDK? read the contributing guidelines: https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md

Reviewer 2: I think linking to the contributing information is a good idea, since "extending Qiskit" is given in the motivation summary at the top of the page (very correctly!) as a reason for wanting to do this.

  -  [Select and set up an IBM Quantum channel.](setup-channel)
  -  [Configure Qiskit locally.](configure-qiskit-local)

>   -  Follow the steps in [Hello world](hello-world) to write and run a quantum program.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  -  Follow the steps in [Hello world](hello-world) to write and run a quantum program.
  - Want to contribute to the open-source Qiskit SDK? Read the [contributing guidelines.](https://github.com/Qiskit/qiskit/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)
```

```python
  pip install -r requirements-dev.txt
```

4. Install `qiskit`. 

  * **Standard install**: 

    ```python
      pip install .
    ```

  * **Editable mode**: In this mode, you don't need to reinstall Qiskit when there are code changes to the project.

    ```python
      pip install -e .
    ```

    In editable mode, the compiled extensions are built in _debug mode_ without optimizations. This affects the runtime performance of the compiled code. To build the compiled extensions with optimizations enabled, run the following command to rebuild the binary in _release mode_:

    ```python
      python setup.py build_rust --release --inplace
    ```

    <Admonition type="note">
    If you are working on Rust code in Qiskit, you need to rebuild the extension code every time you make a local change. In editable mode, the Rust extension is only built when the install command is run, so local changes you make to the Rust code are not reflected in the installed package unless you rebuild the extension by rerunning `build_rust` (with or without `--release`, depending on whether you want to build in release or debug mode).
    </Admonition>

> ## Run example code
> 
> You can run Qiskit code examples by running the following command:
> 
> ```python
>   python examples/python/using_qiskit_terra_level_0.py
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
